Database Updater Tool
For the xTuple Applications (OpenMFG - PostBooks)
Last Revised: 02/22/08
===================================

The Database Updater Tool for the xTuple Applications (OpenMFG - 
PostBooks) enables you to update your databases from one version 
to the next, using upgrade scripts (.gz files) provided by 
xTuple. Running the updater will only make changes to database 
schema. Your data will not be affected. After updating a database, 
be sure to download and use the corresponding xTuple Client 
application (OpenMFG - PostBooks), as the Client version used 
must correspond to the updated database version. 

IMPORTANT NOTE: Before performing any updates to a database, you 
should first make a backup copy of the database you are updating.
Having a backup ensures you can always go back to the original
database if errors occur during the upgrade.

TIP: You should log in to the Updater as the default xTuple 
superuser (e.g., mfgadmin) to ensure your upgrades are performed
successfully.

ADDITIONAL NOTE: By default, the latest version of the Updater 
runs an entire series of upgrade scripts as a single commit that 
will be rolled back if any errors are encountered. This ensures
that databases will not be left in a partially-upgraded state if
errors are encountered during the uprgrade process. Either a 
databse is upgraded to the next version successfully, or the 
upgrade is cancelled and the database is restored to its original 
state.

To use the updater, you must first make sure you have the .gz 
file(s) required to update your database. When starting the 
updater, you will be asked to log into the database you want 
to upgrade. This login procedure is the same as when logging into 
any xTuple application. Once you have logged in, select the 
"File | Open..." menu option and choose the first package you want 
to use.

When a package is loaded it will first check your database for a 
series of requirements. If those requirements are met, the updater 
will indicate the check for requirements has been successful. This 
means you may proceed with the update. 

NOTE: If you do not receive a success indicator, you will be given 
a reason why the requirements check has failed. Examine any error 
messages closely to determine the cause of the errors. You may need 
to stop the update process at this point and investigate the issues 
more closely.

After a successful requirements check, you may select the START 
UPDATE button. As the update progresses, you will see various 
messages indicating the progress of the update. You will also see 
a progress bar just below the START UPDATE button.

Depending on the exact state of your database, you may get some 
error messages. Some of these errors may be safely ignored--
especially those which indicate plainly that they were ignored. 
Other errors may require you to take specific actions. You should 
examine such errors closely. After examination, you may either 
choose to ignore the error, retry after correcting the problem on 
the database, or abort the update altogether. Of course, you can 
always go back to your original database as long as you remembered
to make a backup copy before you started the upgrade.

Once all the database changes have been made, the updater will 
update any new reports that are available.

NOTE: Reports have grades. When printing reports, the report with 
the highest grade is the one printed first. You can have any 
number of reports with varying grades loaded into your database. 
Reports with a grade of 0 are considered xTuple stock reports. 
Reports with a grade higher than 0 are considered custom reports. 
If you have a custom report, you should be sure to save it with 
a grade of 1 or higher. Grading your custom reports appropriately 
will prevent custom reports from being overwritten by stock reports 
during the update process. xTuple reserves the right to upgrade
any and all reports having a grade of 0 during the update process.

When the updater progress bar reaches 100%, you may open a new 
package or close the updater application. Your database is now
updated to the next version.